Note:
The reason I wrote the metaphors and comparisons in these treatises in the form of stories is to enhance their comprehensibility and to show how rational, harmonious, grounded, and coherent the truths of Islam are. The meanings behind the stories lie in the subsequent truths. By virtue of their allegorical structure, these stories merely allude to those truths. Thus, essentially, they are not fictitious tales but solid truths.

Brother, if you wish for clarity regarding the Resurrection and the Hereafter provided in simple and plain language, join my nafs and listen to this symbolic story...

Once upon a time, two men were traveling towards a land of heavenly beauty (referring to this world). When they arrived, they noticed that everyone left the entrance to their homes and shops open and unattended. Goods and money were out in the open with no owner in sight. One of the two travelers started stealing and looting every desirable thing he could lay his hands on. As he gave in to his urges, he committed all kinds of injustice and indecency. None of the locals prevented him. Finally, his friend said to him:

"What are you doing? You will be punished, and you will get me in trouble as well. These goods are state property. The people here, including their children, serve as either soldiers or officials. Currently, they have been assigned to carry out certain tasks as civilians, which is why they're not stopping you. However, strict order reigns here! The king has installed telephones in every corner and his agents are everywhere. Now come to your senses and repent."

The foolish traveler, however, persisted and said:

"You are wrong! These goods are not state property. They are more like products of some charity, belonging to no one in particular. Anyone can freely make use of them as they please. I see no reason to refrain from these lovely things. As long as I don't see any physical evidence with my eyes, I simply will not believe you."

He went on to spout all kinds of philosophical fallacies, which sparked a serious discussion between the two. Initially, the foolish traveler questioned:

"What king are you talking about? I am not aware of such a king."

In response, his friend said:

"No village is without a headman. No pin is without a craftsman; it cannot be without a maker. No letter can come into being without a scribe; you know this... Then how can this infinitely well-ordered country be without a ruler? And as you also must have noticed, it is as if every hour a locomotive appears out of nowhere, delivering loads of precious, artfully-crafted goods, then disappears again... How can such wealth have no owner? And what about all the widely displayed announcements and proclamations, the monograms, seals and signatures on all items, and all the flags waving in every corner of this land? How could they be ownerless? You seem to have studied some western languages. However, you cannot read these Islamic scriptures. Nor do you bother to ask experts what they contain. Now come, let me read to you the king's greatest decree."

The foolish traveler turned to him and said: "Alright, let's say there is such a king, what harm would he suffer from my meager consumption? What would he lose from his treasury? Besides, there are no such things as prisons here; not a glimpse of punishment is to be seen."

His friend replied:

"This land we see before us is a training field. It also serves as a royal gallery to display the king's extraordinary works of art. At the same time, it is the king's temporary, unstable guesthouse. Haven't you noticed that each and every day a caravan appears, while another departs and disappears?

There is a constant settlement and evacuation going on. In due time, this whole country will be reshaped. Its inhabitants shall be transferred to a different, permanent realm. There, everyone will be either punished or rewarded in accordance with his service."

Yet again, the treacherous fool opposed and said:

"I don't believe you. How could it ever be possible for an entire country to be destroyed and transferred to some other realm?"

His trusted friend then replied:

"Since you're being so stubborn and defiant, follow me... From among the endless proofs, I shall present 'Twelve Outlooks' to show you: an Ultimate Judgment will take place; a realm of reward and bestowal exists, just as a realm of punishment and imprisonment exists, and this land, which is partly filled and emptied daily, will one day be completely cleared and destroyed."